Add Entries: Go Conditionals, Go Operators (#594)
Codecademy/docs: content/go/concepts/conditionals/conditionals.md

---
Title: 'Conditionals'

> Description: 'Conditionals are used to evaluate if an expression is `true` or `false` and execute code based on that value.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Conditionals are used to evaluate if an expression is true or false and execute code based on that value.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Comparison'
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'If'
  - 'Else'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/back-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> Conditionals are used to evaluate if an expression is `true` or `false` and execute code based on that value. There are several statements that use conditional expressions to determine what code to execute. The primary one being the `if...else if...else` statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Go, conditionals are used to execute based on whether an expression evaluates to `true` or `false`, primarily with the `if`, `else`, and `else if` statements.
```

> Other statements that can use conditional statements are [`switch`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/switch) and [`for`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/loops).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conditionals can  be nested elsewhere such as inside the [`switch`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/switch) and [`for`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/loops) statements.
```

## The `if` Statement

> One of the statements that's thought of most often in connection with conditional statements is the `if` statement. In its most basic form, the `if` statement evaluates if a condition is `true`, and if so, executes its associated code block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `if` statement is mostly associated with conditionals. The code block inside an `if` statement executes if a condition evaluates  `true`. Otherwise, it is skipped.
```

### Syntax

> If `condition` is `true`, execute `statements`. Execution continues after the `if` block regardless of the value of `condition`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `condition` is `true`, the `statements` inside the code block will be executed. Execution continues after the `if` block regardless of the value of `condition`.
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe it could include info about [using `if`s with short statements](https://go.dev/tour/flowcontrol/6)?

```pseudo
if small_statement; condition {
  statements
}
```

```pseudo
if condition {
  statements
}
```

## The `else` Statement

> The `else` statement provides an optional block of code to execute if the prior `if` (and `else if`) conditions are `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `else` statement provides an optional block of code that execute if prior conditions evaluate to `false`.
```

### Syntax

> If `condition` is `true`, execute `statements_1`. If `condition` is `false`, execute `statements_2`. Execution then continues after the `else` block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `condition` is `true`, `statements_1` will execute. If `condition` is `false`, `statements_2` will execute instead. Execution then continues after the `else` block.
```

```pseudo
if condition {
  statements_1
} else {
  statements_2
}
```

## The `else if` Statement

> The addition of `else if` statements allow additional conditions to be tested if the prior ones are `false`, each is associated with its own block of code to execute if its condition is `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The addition of `else if` statements allow additional conditions to be tested if the prior ones are `false`. Each is associated with its own block of code to execute if its condition is `true`.
```

### Syntax

> If `condition_1` is `true`, execute `statements_1`. If `condition_1` is `false` and `condition_2` is `true`, then execute `statements_2`. If neither condition is `true`, execute `statements_3`. Execution then continues after the `else` block. There can be any number of `else if` statements, and the final `else` is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The control flow logic of the code below can be broken down like this:

* If `condition_1` is `true`, `statements_1` will execute. 
* Else, if `condition_1` is `false` and `condition_2` is `true`, `statements_2` will be executed instead. 
* However, if neither condition is `true`, `statements_3` will execute. 

Execution then continues after the `else` block. There can be any number of `else if` statements, and the final `else` is optional.
```

```pseudo
if condition_1 {
  statements_1
} else if condition_2 {
  statements_2
} else {
  statements_3
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Let's add a short "Example" section with a regular ```go code snippet. Maybe it could include info about [using `if`s with short statements](https://go.dev/tour/flowcontrol/6)?

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Codebyte Example
```

```codebyte/golang
package main
import "fmt"

> 
> number := 522
> 
> if number == 0 {
>   fmt.Println("Number is zero.")
> } else if number % 2 == 0 {
>   fmt.Println("Number is even.")
> } else {
>   fmt.Println("Number is odd.")
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
func main() {
  number := 522

  if number == 0 {
    fmt.Println("Number is zero.")
  } else if number % 2 == 0 {
    fmt.Printf("Number %d is even.\n", number)
  } else {
    fmt.Printf("Number %d is odd.\n", number)
  }
}
```

```

> ## Comparison Operators

Reviewer: I'm wondering if the information in the rest of this entry could go in a separate entry titled "Operators"?

Author: Ok. That means I added a whole other entry to this PR. 😃

---
Title: 'Conditionals'
Description: 'Conditionals are used to evaluate if an expression is true or false and execute code based on that value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Comparison'
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'If'
  - 'Else'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/back-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> In Go, conditionals are used to execute based on whether an expression evaluates to `true` or `false`, primarily with the `if`, `else`, and `else if` statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Conditionals,  primarily the `if`, `else`, and `else if` statements, are used to execute based on whether an expression evaluates to `true` or `false`.
```

Conditionals can be nested elsewhere such as inside the [`switch`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/switch) and [`for`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/loops) statements.

## The `if` Statement

The `if` statement is mostly associated with conditionals. The code block inside an `if` statement executes if a condition evaluates `true`. Otherwise, it is skipped.

### Syntax

> If the `condition` is `true`, the `statements` inside the code block will be executed. Execution continues after the `if` block regardless of the value of `condition`.

Author: Done

---
Title: 'Conditionals'
Description: 'Conditionals are used to evaluate if an expression is `true` or `false` and execute code based on that value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Comparison'
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'If'
  - 'Else'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/back-end-engineer-career-path'
---

Conditionals are used to evaluate if an expression is `true` or `false` and execute code based on that value. There are several statements that use conditional expressions to determine what code to execute. The primary one being the `if...else if...else` statements.

Other statements that can use conditional statements are [`switch`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/switch) and [`for`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/loops).

> ## The `if...else if...else` Statements

Reviewer 3: @SSwiniarski  let me know what you think, but I'm wondering if this would be better split up into individual sections for "if", "else" and "else if" like how it's done in the other conditional entries like for [Python](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/conditionals) or [C++](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/conditionals). I noticed it's split up in the [Go learn path](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-go/modules/learn-go-conditionals) too. Then, we can have the pseudo-code/example for each corresponding section.

Author: Sounds good.

> One of the statements that's thought of most often in connection with conditional statements is the `if` statement. In it's most basic form, the `if` statement evaluates if a condition is `true`, and if so, executes its associated code block. The addition of `else if` allows additional conditions to be tested if the prior ones are `false`, each associted with its own block of code to execute if its condition is `true`. The `else` statement provides a final block of code to execute if all prior `if` and `else if` conditions are `false`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of the statements that's thought of most often in connection with conditional statements is the `if` statement. In its most basic form, the `if` statement evaluates if a condition is `true`, and if so, executes its associated code block. The addition of `else if` allows additional conditions to be tested if the prior ones are `false`, each is associated with its own block of code to execute if its condition is `true`. The `else` statement provides a final block of code to execute if all prior `if` and `else if` conditions are `false`.
```

### Syntax

If `condition` is `true`, execute `statements`. Execution continues after the `if` block regardless of the value of `condition`.

```pseudo
if condition {
  statements
}
```

If `condition` is `true`, execute `statements_1`. If `condition` is `false`, execute `statements_2`. Execution then continues after the `else` block.

```pseudo
if condition {
  statements_1
} else {
  statements_2
}
```

If `condition_1` is `true`, execute `statements_1`. If `condition_1` is `false` and `condition_2` is `true`, then execute `statements_2`. If neither condition is `true`, execute `statements_3`. Execution then continues after the `else` block. There can be any number of `else if` statements, and the final `else` is optional.

```pseudo
if condition_1 {
  statements_1
} else if condition_2 {
  statements_2
} else {
  statements_3
}
```

### Example

```codebyte/golang
package main
import "fmt"

number := 522

if number == 0 {
  fmt.Println("Number is zero.")
} else if number % 2 == 0 {
  fmt.Println("Number is even.")
} else {
  fmt.Println("Number is odd.")
}
```

## Comparison Operators

> Conditional expressions often use comparison operators. Comparison operators compare two expressions and return `true` or `false` based on the operatior and the values of the expression. Go has the following comparison operators.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Conditional expressions often use comparison operators. Comparison operators compare two expressions and return `true` or `false` based on the operator and the values of the expression. Go has the following comparison operators.
```
